packages/task-graph/src/task/README.md, before:

# Task System Documentation

This module provides a flexible task processing system with support for various task types, dependency management, and error handling.

- [Key Components](#key-components)
  - [Core Classes](#core-classes)
- [Task Types](#task-types)
  - [A Simple Task](#a-simple-task)
  - [isCompound = true](#iscompound--true)
  - [Job Queue Tasks](#job-queue-tasks)
- [Task Lifecycle](#task-lifecycle)
- [Event Handling](#event-handling)
- [Input/Output Definitions](#inputoutput-definitions)
- [Registry \& Queues](#registry--queues)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Installation](#installation)

## Key Components

### Core Classes

- `Task`: Base class implementing core task functionality
- `ArrayTask`: Processes arrays of inputs using parallel subtasks
- `JobQueueTask`: Integrates with job queue system for distributed processing

## Task Types

### A Simple Task

```typescript
interface MyTaskInput {
  input: number;
}
interface MyTaskOutput {
  result: number;
}
class MyTask extends Task {
  static readonly type = "MyTask"; // Required, unique identifier for the task
  static readonly category = "Utility"; // Optional, used for grouping tasks in UI
  declare runInputData: MyTaskInput;
  declare runOutputData: MyTaskOutput;
  static inputs = [{ id: "input", valueType: "number" }];
  static outputs = [{ id: "result", valueType: "number" }];
  static isCompound = false;

  async execute() {
    // Do something with the input that takes a long time
    await sleep(1000);
  }
  async executeReactive(input: MyTaskInput) {
    return { result: input.input * 2 };
  }
}
```

### isCompound = true

- Compound tasks are tasks that contain other tasks. They are represented as an internal TaskGraph.
- Compound tasks can regenerate its own subtasks based on changes to its inputs.
- An ArrayTask is a regenerative task based on a single task that processes an array of inputs in parallel by creating a new subtask for each input, and then combining the results into a single array output.

### Job Queue Tasks

JobQueueTask is a task that can be used to run a task in a job queue. This is useful for when there might be rate limits or other constraints on the task that make it better to run in a job queue than in the main thread.

```typescript
class MyJobTask extends JobQueueTask {
  async createJob() {
    return new Job({
      input: this.runInputData,
      execute: (input) => ({ result: input.value * 3 }),
    });
  }
}
```

## Task Lifecycle

- **Statuses**: `Pending` → `Processing` → (`Completed`|`Failed`|`Aborted`)
- **Methods**:
  - `run()`: Full execution with caching, calls the subclass `execute` method
  - `runReactive()`: Lightweight execution for UI updates, calls the subclass `executeReactive` method
  - `abort()`: Cancel running task

## Event Handling

```typescript
task.on("start", () => console.log("Task started"));
task.on("progress", (p) => console.log(`Progress: ${p}%`));
task.on("complete", () => console.log("Task completed"));
task.on("error", (err) => console.error("Task failed", err));
task.on("abort", () => console.log("Task aborted"));
task.on("regenerate", () => console.log("Task regenerated"));
```

## Input/Output Definitions

```typescript
static inputs = [
  {
    id: "username",
    name: "User Name",
    valueType: "string",
    defaultValue: "guest",
    optional: true
  }
];

static outputs = [
  {
    id: "result",
    name: "Processing Result",
    valueType: "number"
  }
];
```

## Registry & Queues

The TaskRegistry is used to register tasks to there is a global registry. This is useful for a node based UI to allow tasks to be dragged and dropped onto the canvas.

```typescript
TaskRegistry.registerTask(MyTask);
```

The TaskQueueRegistry is used to get a queue for a given name. This is useful for when you want to run a task in a job queue. A queue can be created for a given task type, and all the tasks of that type will be added to the queue.

```typescript
// Queue management
const queue = getTaskQueueRegistry().getQueue("processing");
queue.add(new MyJobTask());
```

## Error Handling

```typescript
try {
  await task.run();
} catch (err) {
  if (err instanceof TaskAbortedError) {
    console.log("Task was aborted");
  }
  if (err instanceof TaskErrorGroup) {
    console.log("Multiple errors:", err.getErrors());
  }
}
```

## Testing

```bash
bun test
```

## Installation

```bash
bun add @ellmers/task-system
```

Commit message:

refactor: Introduce RunOrReplicateTask for flexible task execution (#77)
* refactor: Introduce RunOrReplicateTask for flexible task execution

- Add new RunOrReplicateTask to support dynamic task replication
- Implement task execution with array inputs using subgraph
- Update task type definitions to support "replicate" input/output mode
- Move type utility functions to separate module
- Simplify task execution logic across AI and task-graph packages
- Enhance task input handling and type conversion
- Modify executeWithoutGraph method to handle undefined results

packages/task-graph/src/task/README.md, after:

# Task System Documentation

This module provides a flexible task processing system with support for various task types, dependency management, and error handling.

- [Key Components](#key-components)
  - [Core Classes](#core-classes)
- [Task Types](#task-types)
  - [A Simple Task](#a-simple-task)
  - [isCompound = true](#iscompound--true)
  - [Job Queue Tasks](#job-queue-tasks)
- [Task Lifecycle](#task-lifecycle)
- [Event Handling](#event-handling)
- [Input/Output Definitions](#inputoutput-definitions)
- [Registry \& Queues](#registry--queues)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Installation](#installation)

## Key Components

### Core Classes

- `Task`: Base class implementing core task functionality
- `RunOrReplicateTask`: Executes a task or a task with multiple inputs in parallel with a subGraph
- `ArrayTask`: Processes arrays of inputs using parallel subtasks (deprecated)
- `JobQueueTask`: Integrates with job queue system for distributed processing

## Task Types

### A Simple Task

```typescript
interface MyTaskInput {
  input: number;
}
interface MyTaskOutput {
  result: number;
}
class MyTask extends Task {
  static readonly type = "MyTask"; // Required, unique identifier for the task
  static readonly category = "Utility"; // Optional, used for grouping tasks in UI
  declare runInputData: MyTaskInput;
  declare runOutputData: MyTaskOutput;
  static inputs = [{ id: "input", valueType: "number" }];
  static outputs = [{ id: "result", valueType: "number" }];
  static isCompound = false;

  async execute() {
    // Do something with the input that takes a long time
    await sleep(1000);
  }
  async executeReactive(input: MyTaskInput) {
    return { result: input.input * 2 };
  }
}
```

### isCompound = true

- Compound tasks are tasks that contain other tasks. They are represented as an internal TaskGraph.
- Compound tasks can regenerate its own subtasks based on changes to its inputs.
- An ArrayTask is a regenerative task based on a single task that processes an array of inputs in parallel by creating a new subtask for each input, and then combining the results into a single array output.

### RunOrReplicateTask

- RunOrReplicateTask is a task that can run a task as normal, or if the inputs are an arryay and the input definition has isArray="replicate", then the task will run parallel copies with a subGraph.
- The subGraph is a TaskGraph that is created from the inputs of the task.
- The results of the subGraph are combined such that the outputs are turned into arrays.

### Job Queue Tasks

JobQueueTask is a task that can be used to run a task in a job queue. This is useful for when there might be rate limits or other constraints on the task that make it better to run in a job queue than in the main thread.

```typescript
class MyJobTask extends JobQueueTask {
  async createJob() {
    return new Job({
      input: this.runInputData,
      execute: (input) => ({ result: input.value * 3 }),
    });
  }
}
```

## Task Lifecycle

- **Statuses**: `Pending` → `Processing` → (`Completed`|`Failed`|`Aborted`)
- **Methods**:
  - `run()`: Full execution with caching, calls the subclass `execute` method
  - `runReactive()`: Lightweight execution for UI updates, calls the subclass `executeReactive` method
  - `abort()`: Cancel running task

## Event Handling

```typescript
task.on("start", () => console.log("Task started"));
task.on("progress", (p) => console.log(`Progress: ${p}%`));
task.on("complete", () => console.log("Task completed"));
task.on("error", (err) => console.error("Task failed", err));
task.on("abort", () => console.log("Task aborted"));
task.on("regenerate", () => console.log("Task regenerated"));
```

## Input/Output Definitions

```typescript
static inputs = [
  {
    id: "username",
    name: "User Name",
    valueType: "string",
    defaultValue: "guest",
    optional: true
  }
];

static outputs = [
  {
    id: "result",
    name: "Processing Result",
    valueType: "number"
  }
];
```

## Registry & Queues

The TaskRegistry is used to register tasks to there is a global registry. This is useful for a node based UI to allow tasks to be dragged and dropped onto the canvas.

```typescript
TaskRegistry.registerTask(MyTask);
```

The TaskQueueRegistry is used to get a queue for a given name. This is useful for when you want to run a task in a job queue. A queue can be created for a given task type, and all the tasks of that type will be added to the queue.

```typescript
// Queue management
const queue = getTaskQueueRegistry().getQueue("processing");
queue.add(new MyJobTask());
```

## Error Handling

```typescript
try {
  await task.run();
} catch (err) {
  if (err instanceof TaskAbortedError) {
    console.log("Task was aborted");
  }
  if (err instanceof TaskErrorGroup) {
    console.log("Multiple errors:", err.getErrors());
  }
}
```

## Testing

```bash
bun test
```

## Installation

```bash
bun add @ellmers/task-system
```
