packages/task-graph/src/storage/README.md, before:

# Task Graph Storage Module

This module provides persistent storage solutions for task graphs and task outputs using various storage backends. The implementation follows a repository pattern with multiple concrete implementations for different storage technologies.

- [Task Output Repositories](#task-output-repositories)
- [Task Graph Repositories](#task-graph-repositories)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Architecture Notes](#architecture-notes)
- [License](#license)

## Task Output Repositories

TaskOutputRepository is a repository for task caching. If a task has the same input it is assumed to return the same output. The task graph runner does not resume, but i can quickly get to the aborted state by using the output repository.

Available Implementations:

- **InMemoryTaskOutputRepository**: Volatile in-memory storage
- **FsFolderTaskOutputRepository**: File system storage
- **IndexedDbTaskOutputRepository**: IndexedDB storage
- **SqliteTaskOutputRepository**: SQLite storage
- **PostgresTaskOutputRepository**: PostgreSQL storage

All implementations extend `TaskOutputRepository` abstract class and provide:

- Task-type specific storage
- Event emitters for storage operations

```typescript
// Example usage
const outputRepo = new SqliteTaskOutputRepository(":memory:");
await outputRepo.saveOutput("MyTaskType", { param: "value" }, { result: "data" });
```

## Task Graph Repositories

TaskGraphRepository is a repository for task graphs themselves. It is used to save and load task graphs.

Available Implementations:

- **InMemoryTaskGraphRepository**: Volatile in-memory storage (good for testing)
- **FsFolderTaskGraphRepository**: File system storage using JSON files
- **IndexedDbTaskGraphRepository**: Browser-based IndexedDB storage
- **SqliteTaskGraphRepository**: SQLite database storage
- **PostgresTaskGraphRepository**: PostgreSQL database storage

All implementations extend `TaskGraphRepository` abstract class and provide:

- CRUD operations for task graphs
- Event emitters for storage operations
- Serialization/deserialization of task graphs with data flows

```typescript
// Example usage
const fsRepo = new FsFolderTaskGraphRepository("./storage");
const memoryRepo = new InMemoryTaskGraphRepository();
```

## Testing

Tests are written using Bun test runner. To run tests:

```bash
bun test
```

Tests include:

- Generic repository tests that run against all implementations
- Storage-specific test suites

## Architecture Notes

- All repositories use a TabularRepository pattern internally
- Schema definitions are centralized in `TaskGraphSchema`/`TaskOutputSchema`
- Primary key configurations are managed through `PrimaryKeyNames` constants
- Event emitters provide hooks for monitoring repository operations

## License

Apache 2.0 - See LICENSE file for details

Commit message:

refactor: Use DI instead of subclassing for TaskGraphRepository and TaskOutputRepository. Move subclasses as test bindings
- Convert abstract classes to concrete classes with dependency injection
- Remove redundant type properties
- Standardize constructor signatures across repository implementations
- Update README documentation to reflect changes
- Simplify repository initialization in binding classes

packages/task-graph/src/storage/README.md, after:

# Task Graph Storage Module

This module provides persistent storage solutions for task graphs and task outputs using various storage backends. The implementation follows a repository pattern with multiple concrete implementations for different storage technologies.

- [Task Output Repositories](#task-output-repositories)
- [Task Graph Repositories](#task-graph-repositories)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Architecture Notes](#architecture-notes)
- [License](#license)

## Task Output Repositories

TaskOutputRepository is a repository for task caching. If a task has the same input it is assumed to return the same output. The task graph runner does not resume, but you can quickly get to the aborted state by using the output repository and re-running the task graph.

```typescript
// Example usage
import { SqliteTaskOutputRepository } from "@ellmers/test"; // pre-bound implementation for sqlite
const outputRepo = new SqliteTaskOutputRepository(":memory:");
await outputRepo.saveOutput("MyTaskType", { param: "value" }, { result: "data" });
```

## Task Graph Repositories

TaskGraphRepository is a repository for task graphs themselves. It is used to save and load task graphs.

The `TaskGraphRepository` class provides:

- CRUD operations for task graphs
- Event emitters for storage operations
- Serialization/deserialization of task graphs with data flows

```typescript
// Example usage
import { SqliteTaskGraphRepository } from "@ellmers/test"; // pre-bound implementation for sqlite
const fsRepo = new FsFolderTaskGraphRepository("./storage");
const memoryRepo = new InMemoryTaskGraphRepository();
```

## Testing

Tests are written using Bun test runner. To run tests:

```bash
bun test
```

Tests include:

- Generic repository tests that run against all implementations
- Storage-specific test suites

## Architecture Notes

- All repositories use a TabularRepository pattern internally
- Schema definitions are centralized in `TaskGraphSchema`/`TaskOutputSchema`
- Primary key configurations are managed through `PrimaryKeyNames` constants
- Event emitters provide hooks for monitoring repository operations

## License

Apache 2.0 - See LICENSE file for details
